Bob what is the usefulness of
hemmy sink in exploring
different states of
consciousness. In exploring
different states of
consciousness. Hema sing.
First of all.
Is tremendously valuable for one
reason? And that is that it is.
Is not like a drug it's not like
a chemical? It is a sound.
And as it as a sound it in turn.
Doesn't invade the body as it
were is not even like electrical
stimulation? Where you force the
body to do things by
electricity. But it also means
is that the mind can accept it
or reject it.
In other words, is not something
that forces itself into you like
this. It says here and it is so
the applications are so broad
that we really don't know all of
them we uncover new ones all the
time. Let's take the extremes.
You can use him a sink to keep
you awake. Totally focused
attention wide awake and alert
and over here, you can put a
person to sleep internatural
sleep. And the in between or all
of these many, many different
ways. Different states of
consciousness that Henderson can
be used to perform things and
you. Let's go to the wake stage
first of all you can be Super
awake and what do we mean by say
Super Awake? Intense focus of
attention concentration so that
you all of your attention is
focused on say a book or
something like this and by that
focusing you achieve much
greater attention and much
greater understanding just as
you do focus your attention. But
this helps you do it to a
degree. Perhaps that you've
never been able to do before
that type of focusing of
attention being like that now
you can change that.
Just a little bit by intern
again using Hema sing can then
move into a physical pattern.
Of stimulating physical activity
and that's why I again focusing
of attention on physical
activity in sports. For example,
and we have an application that
we used in golf that.
The one the best example. We
know and the president of this
national excuse me state.
Golf Association sliced 11
strokes off his score just by
using this is that kind of
thing, but it is because it let
him focuses attention on the
physical activity. Then you move
and you can see some things
taking place here that you can
then move that focus of
attention in many different
ways. You yeah, it's great
because you can take that whole
Sky scan of wakefulness.
And use it in a number of
different ways, then. The next
thing that importantly takes
places that you can shift that
attention that that mind
consciousness into other types
of states. All the way down and
you're not even asleep yet. I
think at this and this all of
these in between. And we have.
Some very profound ones that we
developed that mind you're not
you're not asleep.
But you are awake, so we have a
state that we can achieve by him
missing that let your mind be
awake and your body asleep now.
That means that the
characteristics of your body
your physical body are sleep and
this makes a very, very.
Great discovery available to you
and that is that you don't need
all that physical sensor input
of your five senses.
To be awake to be able to
think, to be conscious.
And that's a great great
discovery because we always
think we have to have all this
physical sensory input in order.
To think we don't need it.
And that's a big discovery and
let you get there very easily to
learn that important pattern so.
That's an illustration in
between these things are various
states of consciousness. Let's
say that that let the
psychiatrist or the analyst
reach in an get into the various
depths of that. Other part of
that patient to find out what
his problems are and let them
surface because he establishes
different means of getting into
them like that. But they're not
the same as I strictly mind,
awake body asleep this him
missing pattern will let you do
that. So you can see the scope
of I'm speaking is anything that
the mind can do hema sync. Let's
it. Let's you help you do that
by changing the focus of
attention the focus of
consciousness. So you see one of
the things that begins to emerge
here is through the use of these
sound patterns. We can help not
force the mind to get into these
other ways of thinking if you
put it that way. These other
ways of perceiving.
And as I'm proud to say that the
whole concept that I found in
out of body is past this wall.
We call asleep because we think
of sleep is unconsciousness and
we have all these other forms of
being unconscious and sleep is
the most common of those
unconscious states. So what
we're doing utilizing this music
is to let the individual have
for the first time control over
his consciousness. And in
relation to that one of the key
things that we have found is
that this can once we.
Help he person learn this
particular state. He in turn is
as if he can restore that at
will, he can. He has a memory of
it and he can recall it? It's as
if you can recall when you were
let's say dancing in the dark if
you want or whatever.
That you can recall it and
there, it is again so if you
have a given state created by
him a sink. You remember the
effect and you can be that again
very important. So if you take
that perspective, you can see
that there is no limit an
steadily all the time. There are
various uses found for this
different pattern and their
multiple patterns were so far
beyond just one little signal
doing something in our latest
approach to it. We each what we
had as one signal is now 7
signals and we may have as many
as. Five of those one signals
that were 7 so we now have
something like 35 different hema
sync signal patterns on one
application or one use so we've
gotten very deep into it.
But the whole point that's so
significant to us, it spot is
emerged out of all of this.
What is come out is that first
of all? Because bear in mind
that we have long ago gone past
quite naturally because I
demanded it. I needed the
answers. So we went past this
thing this unconsciousness
called sleep to find out what
was happening later on where we
are not getting too much signals
from the physical body? What's
happening out there and there
was important thing came out of
it. And that is that
consciousness.
Ann is a continuum it does not
stop when we lose consciousness
here. If we are not conscious
here. We are conscious there.
Whatever there is I don't
pretend to say what that
definition of there is, but we
are there so that means very
simply when you're you've go to
sleep here, you don't lose
consciousness you just.
Shift along the spectrum of
consciousness to another kind of
wakefulness. This is this is and
we in turn, but this
consciousness attempt to
understand that phasing that
part of human consciousness of
work there and it's very
difficult. So we try it and use
dreams and all sorts of things
to try and attempt to understand
that consciousness that that
being there again whatever there
is. And out of that, saying
that we don't know how far that
spectrum of consciousness goes
that long ban its endless and we
call that the Interstate.